Today, it’s a privilege to address you
—a very precious group of people.
Your journey to this day
has not been an easy one.
In this talk, we want to focus
on a specific journey
—the one that began
when you were invited to Gilead
up to your first day in class.
Because of the lockdown,
that journey brought you unexpected trials
unknown to previous classes of Gilead.
Along the way, you said many prayers
and even shed some tears.
But instead of giving into despair
(we’re so proud of you),
you became stronger.
Your journey can be compared
to the journey of a Levite,
as described in Psalm 84.
Let’s open our Bibles to Psalm 84.
We’re going to review the man’s musings
as he traveled from his home
to Jehovah’s temple
—Psalm 84.
And as we do, we will learn what it means
to find strength in Jehovah
and what will help you to continue to go
“from strength to strength.”
So we can begin at verse 5:
“Happy are the men
who find their strength in you.”
Now, what does this mean?
To find strength means
you have to be looking for it.
So we look to Jehovah for strength.
How do we do that?
We do that by prayer and focus.
When we pray, we pray to Jehovah
for his holy spirit
and focus on him.
He gives us strength.
Now, at first, this strength
may be just enough
to start a difficult journey,
such as you started
when you received your invitation to Gilead.
But as the journey continues,
you’ll become stronger
if you take the right approach.
Well, what is that approach?
Well, let’s read on, and we’ll go to verse 6:
“When they pass through the Baca Valley,
“they make it into a place of springs;
and the early rain
clothes it with blessings.”
There were many routes
to travel to get to Jerusalem,
but this Levite speaks of traveling
through the Baca Valley,
and that’s not the scenic route.
The Baca Valley was a dry,
desolate, parched area.
In fact, the word “baca”
comes from a Hebrew word to “weep.”
It seems that the baca plant
exuded a type of milky sap,
giving the appearance of tears,
which added to the gloominess
of this parched land.
There may also have been literal tears shed
as ones made their long journey to Jerusalem.
But notice, notice what this Levite
was able to do
as he walked through this valley.
There, he says in verse 6:
“They make it into a place of springs;
and the early rain
clothes it with blessings.”
You see, this Levite was so focused
on the joy that he would have
worshipping at the temple
that, as he walked through the dry,
desolate Baca Valley,
this scenery along the way
looked attractive to him.
He was able to look at this dried up valley
with eyes of faith
and make it into a place of water springs.
Now, how was that possible?
Well, it’s like when a brother once described
his trip to the house of a sister
he was courting.
It involved getting on dirty buses,
crowded subways,
and walking past dingy apartments.
But to him, the whole trip
was a beautiful scene
because it was taking him to visit her.
Similarly, the Levite of Psalm 84
could see past the gloominess around him
and see Jehovah’s blessings ahead.
He was energized by thinking
about his privilege of actually serving
at Jehovah’s temple
to the point where even the Baca Valley
was beautiful to him,
because it led to the place
he most wanted to be.
And with that in focus, notice what happens.
Let’s read verse 7:
“They will walk on from strength to strength;
“each one appears before God
in Zion.”
Now, what does that mean
—“strength to strength”?
Though the Levite may have entered
the valley of tears
weak under the weight of his problems,
love for true worship
fueled every step taken.
He knew his service would be noticed
by Jehovah,
who would bless his whole-souled effort
to serve him.
That was the initial strength from Jehovah
that he had.
But when he finally arrived at the temple,
the joy of actually appearing
before Jehovah God
—that joy—
and having his approval and blessing
empowered him and it energized him
to walk from the strength
that Jehovah initially gives
to even greater strength.
In other words, it made him
an even stronger person
than he was before beginning the journey.
Now, for you students,
your journey to Gilead
was different from others.
You did not take the scenic route.
But in Jehovah’s strength,
you were able to look
beyond the four walls of quarantine,
beyond the lockdown,
beyond the start of class being postponed.
You looked beyond the dry,
parched ground of the Baca Valley,
and you saw Jehovah’s blessing on his people.
As the Governing Body gave
faithful and discreet direction
to the worldwide brotherhood,
you were right here.
You watched it personally.
So though you may have arrived here
weakened by your personal trials
after walking
through your figurative Baca Valley,
in Jehovah’s strength you came out stronger
and ready to appear
—to appear before Jehovah God
to be trained by his organization.
And then, it was finally announced
that the school would start in August.
And I remember
—I remember the day
when you walked into the classroom
for the first time,
and you sat in your seats,
and you opened up your student binder.
You put your Bible on the desk,
and as you looked up, your eyes revealed,
‘I made it to my journey.’
And class began, day after day.
It is noteworthy that, in Jehovah’s strength,
not one of you
—not one of you missed a day of class.
That is to your credit.
You wanted to learn every day.
You took advantage of every opportunity.
Thank you for the zeal that you showed.
So, yes, remember the lessons from class.
We know you will.
But, also, remember the lesson
from your journey
as you take on new assignments in the future.
See past the challenges along the way;
see past the disappointments;
see past the tears.
Turn your Baca Valley into a spring,
and you will become stronger for it.
You can do this through prayer.
You can do this by praying to Jehovah
for his spirit and focusing on him.
Remember that the end goal
is not the assignment in itself.
The assignment is just a means
to experience your real goal
of having and maintaining Jehovah’s blessing.
If you prayerfully keep that in focus,
Jehovah will completely change your outlook
regarding the challenges in front of you.
The parched land becomes streams of water.
The tears of pain become tears of joy.
You will see Jehovah make you walk on
“from strength to strength”
—from the initial strength Jehovah gives
to becoming an ever stronger servant of his.
He will empower you not only to walk
through the valley of hardships
but you will be that much more ready
for whatever work lies ahead.
You will be in a much better position
to appear before Jehovah your God
and enjoy his favor.
So in conclusion,
take the Baca Valley route
through all your challenges.
There is a wise saying:
“A calm sea never made a good sailor.”
Likewise, don’t trade hardships for comfort,
because you will feel
a closeness to your heavenly Father
in a way that you
never would have experienced
if you hadn’t walked
from “strength to strength”
through the valley of Baca.